Now, wow, I got a 10, 9.
We have this ignition sequence start.
Let's go.
5, 4, 3, 2, 1, 0, all engine run.
Look for the order look for the engine run.
Look for the order look for the order look.
For the lunar landing, the Apollo Saturn V configuration consisted of two basic sections,
the Saturn V booster for Earth launch and departure to the moon, and a lunar flight system for operations at the moon.
The lunar flight system consisted of two modules, one for lunar orbit operations and Earth return, the command and service module, and the other for lunar landing and launch, the lunar module.
The lunar module consisted of two stages, the descent stage for the landing, and the ascent stage for the launch and rendezvous with the command and service modules.
The lunar flight system was injected into a trans lunar trajectory by the final stage of the Saturn booster.
Upon arrival at the moon, the command module inserted the combined vehicles into a circular orbit which passed over the landing site at an altitude of 60 nautical miles.
Prior to landing, two astronauts transferred from the command module to the lunar module, the third remained in the command module.
The lunar module then separated from the command module and at the appropriate point in the lunar orbit initiated the powered descent maneuver using the main engine on the descent stage.
The approach phase of the lunar module powered descent begins at a point or high gate above and approaching the landing point where the pilot has visual contact with the landing area.
When the lunar module arrives at low gate, approximately 200 meters altitude, it pitches forward to a near vertical descent during which the pilot takes over from the automatic control for the final touchdown.
The time from low gate to touchdown is nominally about two minutes.
The planetary landing vehicle, PLV, is designed to replace the lunar module for delivery of very small payloads to a planetary surface.
The PLV consists of two stages originally developed by the Department of Defense for ballistic missile defense.
This direct conversion of Department of Defense technology to space exploration is enabled by the almost identical energy requirements of a lunar landing by the lunar module and a space-based missile intercept by DOD, Kinetic Kill Vehicle, KKV.
This fortuitous analogy of equivalent energy capabilities enables the flight profile of the KKV PLV to overlay the flight profile of the lunar module with only minor adjustments to the KKV flight profile.
The descent stage of the two-stage PLV is separated at low gate where the PLV landing stage is ignited for the final vertical descent and landing.
The descent stage proceeds off-range for disposal.
The final phase of landing in touchdown by a PLV was verified in an actual flight demonstration using a modified KKV test vehicle.
This advanced concept architecture test, or A-CAT, was conducted at the Air Force Phillips Laboratory National Hover Test Facility on September 1, 1993.
Kinetic vehicles, or KVs, are the backbone of rocket-dying's kinetic energy weapons program.
A requirement exists to develop this defense system to protect America's assets from a potential foreign threat.
A KV is a unique defensive weapon in that it can destroy a threat through impact alone.
This has achieved at very high velocities.
Essentially, it's a smart self-propelled bullet with its own logic.
And since the KV carries no warhead, we've been able to keep it small in size.
A major milestone in KV technology was achieved in July 1990 when rocket-dying successfully hovered its advanced hover interceptor test for A-Hit Vehicle.
It marked the first flight of a lightweight 38-pound fully autonomous KV.
A-Hit, not only fluids mission, but acquired and locked on to a target without any commands from ground control.
Up until now, this had never been achieved.
The test demonstrated the capability of a fully integrated vehicle, including all necessary subsystems required for KV operation.
The rocket-dying now has a fully functional autonomous vehicle, whose size is ideally suited for current and future DOD programs, like the ground-based interceptor, or GBI, and brilliant pebbles.
This technology also applies to other spin-off programs currently under consideration.
Through our recent A-Hit test success, we've been able to prove that the KV attitude control system is capable of maintaining the kind of stability required in order to intercept an actual moving target in space.
This kind of control is essential to an operational system.
At the same time, we've demonstrated the ability of the visible seeker to acquire and track a target under actual flight conditions, and it only weighs 5 pounds.
In an effort to reduce potential risk associated with the hover flight, we performed a series of attitude control tests in advance on the vehicle.
They were the first in a series of tests involving the integration of several subsystems into one.
The vehicle was balanced on a pivot while a disturbance was introduced. Using its pre-programmed logic, the vehicle quickly recovered its initial position.
The A-Hit static test demonstrated a hotfire strap-down test of a full-up, lightweight propulsion system. All systems operated properly, and all test objectives were met.
This was the exact propulsion system that was used to control the hover vehicles trajectory and position during flight.
The result of all these tests represents a whole new generation of hover vehicles.
Rocket Dine has gone from a 220-pound vehicle known as ON target to our 38-pound A-Hit vehicle in less than a year.
We fabricated and fully integrated the vehicle with several major subsystems. These include the seeker, the image processor, avionics, telemetry, and the propulsion system.
To convert the A-Hit hover test vehicle directly to a planetary landing test vehicle, only three relatively minor modifications were required.
First, the avionics guidance laws were changed to enable the A-Hit to perform a precisely controlled descent from its hover position.
Second, legs were added for the landing touchdown.
Third, the A-Hit seeker hardware was replaced with a payload compartment and small surface payload.
Using the modified A-Hit vehicle, the A-Cat flight demonstration on September 1, 1993 included the complete sequence of A, a controlled descent from hover using the vertical divert engine, V, touchdown at a landing point well within the capabilities of the lightweight legs, and C, ejection of the surface payload.
The Alessis mission is designed to conform precisely to Apollo.
The Alessis design reference mission is based on the use of a standard Titan II space launch vehicle to carry a cargo comparable to the Apollo Command Module and Lunar Module vehicles.
The Command Module is replaced by a lunar service vehicle for lunar orbit insertion and lunar orbit operations.
The lunar module is replaced by the planetary landing vehicle, two of which can be launched by a single Titan II.
The Alessis lunar orbit configuration, just as Apollo, consists of an orbiting vehicle and a landing vehicle, two in the case of the Alessis design reference mission.
The orbiting lunar service vehicle is a conventional small satellite used for lunar orbit insertion and, after departure of the PLVs, communications relay from the lunar surface to the Earth.
Each planetary landing vehicle is comprised of a two-stage KKV in which the second stage carries the surface payloads.
Similar to the KKV concept, the first stage of the PLV or descent stage provides the high energy portion of the flight profile.
The PLV descent stage consists of an unmodified advanced liquid axial stage or Aless, a lightweight low-cost liquid propulsion system.
The PLV landing stage is comprised of a modified lightweight exoatmosphoric projectile, or LEAP, and a payload system for deployment of specific planetary surface exploration instruments.
The LEAP is a flight-qualified, fully integrated autonomous spacecraft having been demonstrated on several DOD KKV space test missions.
The LEAP is a derivative of the A-Hit hover test vehicle.
The landing stage payload system consists of four similar payload modules, each of which contains a separate surface instrument or device.
The designated scientific instrument for the Alessis design reference mission is the autonomous Grindel micro rover.
The Grindel is an artificially intelligent six-legged walker derived from three generations of predecessor mini robots.
A flight-type Grindel will weigh about five and a half pounds. In its stowed configuration, it is slightly larger than a soft drink can.
The behavior control software enables the Grindel to operate autonomously for extended periods performing a variety of functions in response to its surroundings, scientific objectives, health status, and other mission requirements.
This adaptable micro rover can be equipped with a variety of exploration devices, including recently developed superhuman micro sensors.
For transport and landing, the Grindel is housed in a landing capsule or cocoon.
This cocoon absorbs the landing impact and enables deployment of the micro-rovers onto almost any surface conditions.
The Alessis mission begins just as a Apollo from a low-earth orbit transition to lunar orbit.
However, because a free return trajectory is not necessary, an optimum performance or a minimum energy five-day transfer is utilized.
The Titan II launch vehicle was selected after a series of trade-offs as a balance among cost, launch capability, and overall mission performance margins to maximize the probability of success.
Again, just as Apollo, lunar orbit insertion is performed by the Command Service Module equivalent Lunar Service Vehicle, a contemporary small satellite.
At specified points in lunar orbit and depending on selected landing sites, each of the two PLVs performs an Apollo-type descent and landing.
The Lunar Service Vehicle remains active in lunar orbit, functioning primarily as a data storage and communications relay between the surface stations and the Earth.
Landing sites on both the near side and the far side of the Moon and located at any latitude can be addressed on a single Alessis-type mission.
It should be noted that the Alessis flight system and flight profile can be applied to almost any planetary body, including Mars, Saturn's Moon Titan, and asteroids.
As previously illustrated, the PLV approach and landing follows almost exactly the flight profile demonstrated on each of the six Apollo landings.
The ALAS descent stage performs the higher energy braking phase, which is terminated at the low-gate step approximately 200 meters or about 660 feet above the lunar surface.
At this low-gate step, the ALASis separated to continue downrange for disposal, and the LEAP landing stage is ignited to proceed in a near vertical descent to a hover position above the landing point.
Again, it should be noted that the amount of propulsion energy required for the ALAS descent stage for the braking phase of an Apollo-type descent profile is almost identical to the propulsion energy required for a KKV intercept trajectory.
Similarly, the amount of propulsion energy required for the LEAP landing stage from low-gate to touchdown is almost identical to that required during the tracking and intercept phase of a KKV flight profile.
This conveniently facilitates the conversion of DOD-developed KKV configuration to a planetary landing configuration that is ideal for many types of planetary exploration missions.
As the LEAP landing stage approaches the surface, it enters a precisely controlled vertical descent to the landing point.
After touchdown, each of the four payload modules ejects its cocoon onto the surface.
After the cocoon opens, Grindel walks away to commence its exploration activities.
This final phase of LEAP landing and micro-rover deployment was demonstrated during the Advanced Concept Architecture Test, or ACAT at Phillips Laboratory on September 1, 1993.
The flight demonstration of the modified A-hit test vehicle included a translation maneuver to a hover position directly above the landing point and a controlled descent to landing.
The A-hit vehicle included a single prototype cocoon and Grindel.
The following is a real-time ACAT flight video that was extracted from official video data recording, including the Control Room Test Conductor's Voice Loop.
The vehicle pressure and temperature are nominal and holding.
This is the Slander Launch Control. We're at T-minus 39 seconds and counting.
The instrumentation initiates the auto sequence.
T-minus 30.
T-minus 25.
24.
23.
22.
21.
20.
Battery.
1918.
17.
16.
10.
A-way.
14.
13.
3-py.
12.
11.
10.
80-on-s away.
8.
7.
6.
5.
4.
ACAT received.
3.
10-po.
1.
Zero.
5.
Plus 6.
Plus 7.
Plus 8.
Plus 9.
Plus 10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
3-py.
10-po.
Yeah!
End of flight.
Nortal end of flight.
T-plus 20.
10 seconds after a cocoon ejection, the Grindel opens and proceeds on its mission.
R.
4.
for obstacle avoidance and onboard TV camera and an IR sensor for object detection and location.
The window insert in the upper left of the screen will present the rover's eye view of
its surroundings and path ahead.
The